it is crucial to understand that every lesson from this course
can also be applied just as well. In combination with non procedural elements,
segments of the no tree can be replaced with image
textures to gain easily accessible control over shapes and textures.
Those image textures can be used at any step of the way
as a mosque and overlay a detailed texture mab et cetera.
As a very basic functionality.
Procedural textures can be used to enhance
image textures by including additional variation.
For example a very simple way of introducing variation,
repeating image texture map is to overlay it with a noise texture.
Also introducing variations like this into individual PPR maps like the roughness
map can go a long way to add some realism to a shader
but a procedural approach can also be used to
eliminate obvious reputations in a texture map like this.
Using a very nice texture. The repeating image texture can be randomized in the
Illinois cells to the tile the whole area.
This trick works using the randomization methods
I previously showed in the last chapter.
You can download the example file using eight extra from the blood of cloud.
Just as in the example I show you earlier where
I layer the materials based on the height map.
You can of course just as well use a
non procedural high texture to accomplish the same thing
and in the same sense you can use the method
of adapting masks from for example the vertex color to
follow the logic of the material by using the base
textures of the shader whether those are procedural or not.
But it is important to understand that
the concept of which part is created procedurally
and which is not does not necessarily matter for a dynamic and parametric workflow.
In fact using non procedural elements like image textures
within the procedural workflow can be incredibly powerful.
You can even go further by using an image texture
only as a small part of a generally procedural pattern.
A very useful lesson that can still be taking for example,
is that folding and manipulating the input coordinates can still be used
to influence how the image texture is mapped on the surface.
That way a simple bit mapped textures can be
incorporated into more complex and interesting looking texture maps
in this example I am using a single basic
wood texture from the blander cloud integrated into a procedural
fishbone pattern by lining the texture with the pattern and
randomizing the offset and color for each wooden board.
I generated a completely new texture map that combines the benefits of
a procedural pattern with the realism of a photographic image texture.
This is pretty much the shortcut to procedural realism and can work like
magic to create realistic surface detail that still has the procedural variation.
If used correctly. This workflow can perfectly combined the best of both worlds
and the way this works is honestly nothing that I haven't touched on before.
In this course
at the end of the day,
an image texture is just an element that takes a two
dimensional vector map and returns a column map based on pixels.
This can modular lee be included in a
procedural workflow just like every other element.
Because of this,
the methods to work with non procedural elements
is strongly connected to the Chapter 2.5.
About space manipulation.
Where I showed how the coordinate space can be
put together with individual modules to create basically any pattern
but any part of this course really can just
as well be applied to a semi procedural workflow.
I want to quickly go over the essential elements that make up this example shader
which you can also download as a bland file.
I am taking the shader of the general pattern
that is only missing the wood texture as a framework
that is the fully procedural part that I don't want to focus on
in this section and it really could be any pattern at all.
This fish bone pattern is essentially just a fancier version of
a simple brick pattern that I created using coordinate repetition.
If you are interested, you can get the setup from the demonstration file.
What we need from this pattern is the
information about the coordinate space that it generates.
That is most importantly a coordinate map that is
aligned with the individual boards which make up pattern.
You can think of them as UV coordinates that are the same for each individual board
and these coordinates now have to simply be
adjusted to display the wood texture correctly.
You can use a mapping note to take care of
the correct aspect ratio and rotation of the texture,
but now every board looks the exact same.
So what we want to do here is randomize
the placement of the texture in each individual cell.
To do that we need a huh random value per cell
or generally a value that is different for each cell.
It could be for example the south position.
Then the position vector can simply be plugged into
a white noise texture to receive a random value.
To randomize the placement.
Now we can simply add the random color as a vector
onto the coordinates which offsets the texture randomly for each cell.
And that is already the randomized pattern with the image texture done.
Now this automatically stitched together texture can be used
to be included in the rest of the shader.
If you have the individual PBR maps of this image texture,
you can simply use those with the same manipulated coordinate factories.
This method can be used to create all sorts of different
patterns out of basic scalable image textures in a dynamic setup